hey guys in this methods lesson we're
going to look at TOEFL reading skill
number three which is the question type
called make an inference what is an
inference well first of all what does
the question type look like it will look
like this on test day on the left hand
side you'll have your paragraph of text
on the right hand side you'll have your
question and just before I move on
actually you can see in the question
prompt that it says this it can be
inferred so we know that this is the
inference question here from this word
here inferred fine so what do you have
to do well to infer what is meant by a
sentence or phrase means that you
understand the meaning behind what is
said in other words the meaning won't be
explicitly said you have to sort of read
between the lines you have to sort of
understand the meaning behind what he
said for example let's say let's say I'm
sitting in your house with you and I say
oh it's cold because the window is open
so what's the inference here I want you
to close the window but instead of
explicitly saying to you hey close the
window I sort of say something that
refers to the window being open and it's
cold and so you sort of think okay I'm
gonna close the window because Jay must
be cold
that's an inference you have inferred
something that I said because I didn't
say it explicitly I said it implicitly
you read between the lines cool that's
what this one's all about it's a bit
tricky so an inference is not directly
stated in the text you infer you draw a
conclusion about something based on
information at hand so we need a method
for this one because it's tricky so
first you need to read the question
prompt and the options reread the
relevant section of the text carefully
you eliminate and then you choose okay
so let's apply the method step one read
the question and
look at the answer options so we look
here first it says from paragraph two it
can be inferred that spiders can display
emotions it can be inferred that spiders
can communicate with each other it can
be inferred that spiders have the
ability to think it can be inferred that
spiders live in communities in some
areas of the world ok fine then we move
to step two and we want to reread the
relevant section of the text carefully
which is here now it says from paragraph
two and here you can see the number two
it's hidden from my little text thing
but it says on the ecological
battlefield friendly spiders are the
first to fall a new study shows that the
behavior of individual animals can
determine the fate of entire communities
most spiders are loners but and nearly
Sami estudio Suslov Xin forests of the
Americas in colonies of up to 200
related individuals that build communal
webs called silken reefs the reefs
attract other spider species and some
steel food and even prey on a nearly
semi sis of whatever that scientific
word is as a result the colony usually
collapses within a few years but
occasionally the reef lasts longer
growing to several times the size of a
large car and containing more than 50
spider species step 3
eliminate a possible incorrect answers
this is pretty tough so what we want to
eliminate here are things that are
explicitly said because remember that an
inference is not explicitly stated it's
implicitly it's B it's the meaning
behind the text so anything that's
actually said explicitly we want to
eliminate because that is not an
inference so spiders can display
emotions well first of all the other
thing we want to eliminate is does it
actually say that at all I like it says
it says it shows the behavior of
individual animals it says it says most
spiders alone as
it also says no we can eliminate a
because it just doesn't say that so we
can eliminate B can communicate with
each other
well we can assume that spiders can
communicate in some way but we don't
want to make an assumption here an
inference is different to an assumption
because the information here in the text
doesn't lead me to understand that they
can communicate it doesn't say that what
about the fact that they have the
ability to think well again we can
assume that spiders can think of course
but it there's nothing there's nothing
that in this text that leads me to
believe this so it leaves me with step 4
which is choose the remaining answer
that spiders live in communities in some
areas of the world so a new study shows
that the behavior of individual animals
can determine the fate of entire
communities most spiders are loners this
particular one lives in forests of the
Americas excuse me
fine they build communal webs so you can
see that there are some hints here that
lead us to this answer for example it
doesn't say explicitly that spiders live
in communities in some areas of the
world but it does say a few things that
can lead me to understand this it says
most spiders aloneness but some live in
forests of in colonies they build
communal webs there's a bit of a key
word that might lead you to it and then
the colony usually collapses but
occasionally the reef lasts longer
growing to several times the size scuse
me of a large car and containing more
than 50 spider species this is a bit of
a key phrase down here containing more
than 50 spider species so spiders it can
be inferred that spiders live in
communities in some areas of the world
there's our inference it never
explicitly said this but there are there
is information in here that leads me to
believe that D is the correct and
cool your turn I want you to answer this
one I'm gonna give you a minute away you
go
and there's one minutes cool let's have
a look at the answer here the answer is
d so let's go through the method here we
want to read this first and we can tell
that it's an inference question from
this word here from Baraga 3 it can be
inferred that owning exotic pets let's
read the answer options is becoming more
common and Americans are embracing it it
can be inferred that owning exotic pets
is not considered to be acceptable
owning exotic pets is a new trend
spreading across America or owning
exotic pets is an issue which is open to
debate now we want to eliminate
incorrect ones first of all it just
never said anything about the owning
exotic pets becoming more a common in
America it just didn't say that so we
can eliminate that that's not an
inference it just simply with with
inference it's sometimes it just won't
say something that's not an inference an
inference is when the information in the
text leads you to understand something
it's not explicitly stated but it's
there in other words so when you have
something like answer option a which
says is becoming more common it just
didn't say that at all so we eliminate
that what about B it's not considered to
be acceptable well down here this is
contradictory it says these people say
it's not only dangerous to bring
captive-bred wildlife into the suburbs
but it's cruel and it ought to be
criminal to okay that that's looking
good but this sentence here contradicts
B yet the issue is far from black or
white so it doesn't say that so we can
eliminate B because b contradicts this
so we have eliminated a we've eliminated
B now we've got C it's a new trend
spreading across America well it just
doesn't say that at all and the answer
here is D it's an issue
owning exotic pets is an issue which is
open to debate and that's because it
comes from
this particular sentence here the issue
is far from black or white what does
that mean if an issue is far from black
or white well it means that it's
ambiguous that means that it's debatable
it means that it's not clear and so we
can read we can infer from this that the
issue is open to debate cool let's do
another one again you'll have one minute
starting now
ten more seconds
I should say when you're doing this and
when you are you you you you read the
answer that the question prompt you read
the answer options then you go across
the paragraph you read that and what you
can do is then you strike off you
eliminate those ones that are wrong you
will eliminate those ones that
contradict you eliminate those ones that
are explicitly said not implied not
inferred and what else do you eliminate
uh you eliminate ones that are just
incorrect okay I'm gonna show you what I
mean by that so the answer is B here
let's first look at B as the answer
before we eliminate the rest so first of
all you can be inferred that the
captain's behavior was detrimental to
the survival of some passages passengers
rather and this comes from this sentence
here this attitude was not helped by
captain Smith who had not acquainted his
senior officers with the full situation
so his behavior captain Smith's behavior
in other words was detrimental to the
survival of some passengers this is the
inference we can make here but let's
eliminate aim the Titanic was well
designed but unlucky to strike the
iceberg iceberg well it doesn't really
say that it was just luck because it
says that there was also human error in
there particularly this last sentence
here and we can eliminate that one there
see 48 lifeboats would not have been
enough well in fact it didn't even have
48 lifeboats it did it how many did it
have its it had to duty to do 16
lifeboats they proposed 48 lifeboats but
it only had 16 so this one's just wrong
and then D the senior officers were
prepared in spite of the captain's
attitude is this an inference we can
make here well no in other words this
does not say
this in other words so we can eliminate
that as well we don't know what the
senior officers thought or what their
attitudes were so B is the only one left
there cool let's do the last one here
all right let's look at the answer so
what can we infer from this paragraph
okay let's go through starting with a
babies are especially perceptive of
physical appearance well this is wrong
because it says our ability to make this
trustworthiness judgment develops as we
grow so that's just incorrect be
attractive people are more likely to be
successful well that's not an inference
it just says it here explicitly it says
attractive people are also considered to
be smarter more sociable and more
successful so that's not an inference
that's explicitly stated and this is a
different type of question our judgment
of others can often be misguided well it
doesn't really say that does it that's
that's that's possibly an inference that
we could make from this paragraph but
let's look at D boys are less likely to
link physical appearance with
personality now this is a clear
inference because it says here that
girls are better at it than boys so the
inference there is that boys are less
likely to link physical appearance with
personality because girls are better at
it than boys this is the critical
statement here in which case we can make
the inference that boys are less likely
to link physical appearance with
personality cool thanks for watching I
hope that was helpful
now you should go and do the practice
question so you can nail this one on
test day